So we've now seen,
three main types of recommendation engines.
Knowledge based, collaborative filtering
recommendations and content-based recommendations.
We should also discuss the different types of
ratings that we might collect to make recommendations.
In some cases, we only know if a user's interacted with an item.
In many cases, it might be more helpful to know if a user actually liked an item.
There are different scales that we might use to
measure how much an individual likes an item.
This could be as simple as like or dislike.
You might also retrieve ratings on a spectrum.
One to three, one to five,
one to seven and one to 10 are all common spectrums.
Depending on the granularity you would like and
whether or not you want a user to allow for a neutral standing,
you might choose one rating scale over another.
When you do have the ability to obtain a rating from users,
think about what type of rating would mean the most.
I personally would suggest building
the simplest scaling that gives you the information you need.
If you can understand all that you want,
from just a like or dislike, use that.
If you need something more granular,
consider of having someone be in the middle will hurt your results.
Maybe you want the opportunity for someone to be exactly neutral.
All of these aspects should be considered in
helping you determine the scale that you decide to use.